= Deploying a Chart Repository for Helm Charts
:toc:
:icons:
:linkcss:
:imagesdir: ../../resources/images

You learned about using `helm` in the module
link:../../03-path-application-development/306-app-management-with-helm/readme.adoc[306
Application Management with Helm] this module will teach you how to deploy your
own Chart Repository to your Kubernetes cluster so that you can deploy custom
applications.

== Prerequisites

In order to perform exercises in this chapter, youâ€™ll need to deploy configurations to a Kubernetes cluster. To create an EKS-based Kubernetes cluster, use the link:../../01-path-basics/102-your-first-cluster#create-a-kubernetes-cluster-with-eks[AWS CLI] (recommended). If you wish to create a Kubernetes cluster without EKS, you can instead use link:../../01-path-basics/102-your-first-cluster#alternative-create-a-kubernetes-cluster-with-kops[kops].

All configuration files for this chapter are in the `sample` directory. Make
sure to `cd` into this directory before running any commands.

This chapter expects that you have gone through 
link:../../03-path-application-development/306-app-management-with-helm/readme.adoc[306
Application Management with Helm] meaning you should have installed `helm`.

== ChartMuseum

Chart Museum is an Open Source Chart Repository, it helps you to deploy your
custom charts to an Amazon S3 bucket and allows you to easily access your charts
like you would a `stable` release from something like 
link:https://hub.kubeapps.com/[Kubeapps]. 

=== Installing ChartMuseum

To install `chartmuseum` you first need to add the incubator helm repo.

    $ helm repo add incubator https://kubernetes-charts-incubator.storage.googleapis.com
    "incubator" has been added to your repositories

After you have added the incubator repo, you can install like any other `helm`
package.

    helm install incubator/chartmuseum --name chartmuseum \
      --set env.open.DISABLE_API=false \
      --set image.tag=latest

This will deploy the `chartmuseum` using the standard configuration without
long term storage for your charts.

IMPORTANT: If you do not include `--set env.open.DISABLE_API=false` the `/api/*`
endpoints won't be routable meaning you can't deploy or list charts against the
api.

Once you have this installed you can use `kubectl port-forward` to get access to
the service.

    $ kubectl port-forward $(kubectl get po -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..metadata.name}") 8080:8080
    Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
    Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080

Now that we have this port-forwarded we can try packaging and pushing our
sample project.

    $ cd sample/
    $ helm package .
    Successfully packaged chart and saved it to: /03-path-application-development/309-deploying-a-chart-repository/sample/sample-1.0.0.tgz

Then we can test pushing our first chart to the new repo.

    $ curl --data-binary "@sample-1.0.0.tgz" http://localhost:8080/api/charts
    {"saved":true}

Now that we have this repo with a chart we can configure out local environment
to look through that repo, then we can deploy our chart. 

First lets check if the chart is deployed.

    $ curl http://localhost:8080/api/charts
    {
      "sample": [
        {
          "name": "sample",
          "home": "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes",
          "sources": [
            "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes"
          ],
          "version": "1.0.0",
          "description": "My first Helm chart",
          "keywords": [
            "java",
            "javaee",
            "mysql",
            "wildfly",
            "wildfly swarm"
          ],
          "maintainers": [
            {
              "name": "Arun Gupta",
              "email": "arun.gupta@gmail.com"
            }
          ],
          "urls": [
            "charts\/sample-1.0.0.tgz"
          ],
          "created": "2018-03-10T00:20:00Z",
          "digest": "9ee14a033addb5c9b54ae3714bd595fc652a4305535ab643406dfa83a016c9c5"
        }
      ]
    }

This output represents the pushed chart from the `sample/` repo. Next we're
going to make the storage more reliable by using S3.

==== Accessing the Charts

To access the repo within the `helm` cli add it as a repository.

    helm repo add chartmuseum http://localhost:8080

Now if you use `helm install chartmuseum/sample` or `helm search
chartmuseum/sample` you will see the chart you just pushed.

== Extending ChartMuseum to be Reliable

Now that you have `chartmuseum` running in your cluster we need to make a couple
edits, first we should use the built in mechanisms for storage, exposing, and 
authentication. This will help make the service more reliable because the
container won't be bound to a specific host since the storage will be off
loaded, and the service will be load balanced meaning we can run multiple
copies.

=== Using S3 for Storage

With the default deploy the charts are stored on a mounted volume, for a
Kubernetes deployment where you don't always run on the same node this can cause
issues where the server can't find the charts. To fix this we need to create an
Amazon S3 Bucket for our charts.

    $ export CHART_BUCKET=s3://example-chart-store-$(cat /dev/random | LC_ALL=C tr -dc "[:alpha:]" | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' | head -c 32)
    $ aws s3 mb $CHART_BUCKET
    make_bucket: example-chart-store-zohaenqynbcctothqpmacoicaytzjach

Now that the bucket has been created we need to edit the node IAM policy to
allow access to read, write, delete.

    kops edit cluster example.cluster.k8s.local

You will need to add `additionalPolicies` that will allow all nodes to have
access to the bucket, to do so use:

    additionalPolicies:
      node: |
        [
          {
            "Sid": "AllowListObjects",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
              "s3:ListBucket"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::$BUCKET_NAME"
          },
          {
            "Sid": "AllowObjectsCRUD",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
              "s3:DeleteObject",
              "s3:GetObject",
              "s3:PutObject"
            ],
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::$BUCKET_NAME/*"
          }
        ]

WARNING: Make sure to replace `$BUCKET_NAME` in each of the statements with the
`$CHART_BUCKET` without `s3://`

After you have saved the file you can update the cluster thus adding the new
policies to the nodes.

    kops update cluster example.cluster.k8s.local --yes

Then we can upgrade the chart with the updated values `helm upgrade` cli like so.

    helm upgrade chartmuseum incubator/chartmuseum \
      --reuse-values \
      --set env.open.STORAGE=amazon \
      --set env.open.STORAGE_AMAZON_BUCKET=$BUCKET_NAME \
      --set env.open.STORAGE_AMAZON_PREFIX="" \
      --set env.open.STORAGE_AMAZON_REGION=eu-west-1 \


This will deploy a cluster but it won't be publicly accessible, yet. You will still
need to `kubectl port-forward` to access the repo.

    kubectl port-forward $(kubectl get po -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..metadata.name}") 8080:8080

With port `8080` forwarded you can now open your browser and view the landing
page.

    # on macOS
    open http://localhost:8080

Now that you have access to the server you can add the repo to your local `helm`
client so that you can deploy a repo into it.

    helm repo add chartmuseum http://localhost:8080

Then we can test packaging the sample application.


With this packaged chart we then can push it to the port-forwarded repo.

    $ curl --data-binary "@sample-1.0.0.tgz" http://localhost:8080/api/charts
    {"saved":true}

To verify the package was added properly you can `curl` the list endpoint.

    $ curl http://localhost:8080/api/charts
    {
      "sample": [
        {
          "name": "sample",
          "home": "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes",
          "sources": [
            "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes"
          ],
          "version": "1.0.0",
          "description": "My first Helm chart",
          "keywords": [
            "java",
            "javaee",
            "mysql",
            "wildfly",
            "wildfly swarm"
          ],
          "maintainers": [
            {
              "name": "Arun Gupta",
              "email": "arun.gupta@gmail.com"
            }
          ],
          "urls": [
            "charts\/sample-1.0.0.tgz"
          ],
          "created": "2018-03-10T00:20:00Z",
          "digest": "9ee14a033addb5c9b54ae3714bd595fc652a4305535ab643406dfa83a016c9c5"
        }
      ]
    }

IMPORTANT: You will notice there is only one chart here even though you've
deployed the chart twice, this is because the original chart was deployed to the
local volume which is unaccessible now.

==== Accessing the Charts

To access the repo within the `helm` cli add it as a repository.

    helm repo add chartmuseum http://localhost:8080

Now if you use `helm install chartmuseum/sample` or `helm search
chartmuseum/sample` you will see the chart you just pushed.

=== Exposing Using a Load Balancer

Up until now we've been using port-forwarding to get access to the service
running in Kubernetes, by making a couple tweaks we can expose this using an ELB
and type `LoadBalancer` in the `helm` variables.

Now lets upgrade the `chartmuseum` adding `--set service.type=LoadBalancer` and
`--set service.externalPort=80` to expose using an ELB.


    helm upgrade chartmuseum incubator/chartmuseum \
      --reuse-values \
      --set service.type=LoadBalancer \
      --set service.externalPort=80

Once that deploys you can use `kubectl get svc` to find the exposed Load
Balancer.

    open http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")

This will open the browser showing the app. We can then test that the API is
still configured properly.

    $ curl http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")/api/charts
    {
      "sample": [
        {
          "name": "sample",
          "home": "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes",
          "sources": [
            "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes"
          ],
          "version": "1.0.0",
          "description": "My first Helm chart",
          "keywords": [
            "java",
            "javaee",
            "mysql",
            "wildfly",
            "wildfly swarm"
          ],
          "maintainers": [
            {
              "name": "Arun Gupta",
              "email": "arun.gupta@gmail.com"
            }
          ],
          "urls": [
            "charts\/sample-1.0.0.tgz"
          ],
          "created": "2018-03-10T00:20:00Z",
          "digest": "9ee14a033addb5c9b54ae3714bd595fc652a4305535ab643406dfa83a016c9c5"
        }
      ]
    }

==== Accessing the Charts

To access the repo within the `helm` cli add it as a repository.

    $ helm repo add chartmuseum http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")
    "chartmuseum" has been added to your repositories

Now if you use `helm install chartmuseum/sample` or `helm search
chartmuseum/sample` you will see the chart you just pushed.

=== Authentication

Now that we have our remote storage in-place and our external routing, we need
to lock down who has access to the service. This can be done directly with the 
`helm` chart by adding a couple variables.

WARNING: The rest of this tutorial expects that you need public access to your
`helm` repo. If you use CI/CD you can use your build pipelines within the
cluster to only connect to the internal registry, removing the need for
`chartmuseum` to be public.

Then upgrade the cluster using `--set env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_USER` and `--set
env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_PASS`

    helm upgrade chartmuseum incubator/chartmuseum \
      --reuse-values \
      --set env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_USER=user \
      --set env.secret.BASIC_AUTH_PASS=password

Once this successfully deploys you can use the same command from above to curl
the `chartmuseum` which should error. 

    $ curl -I http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")/api/charts
    HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found
    Content-Type: text/plain
    X-Request-Id: d254b5d3-5b8a-4e78-9968-1e67434c190a
    Date: Fri, 09 Mar 2018 19:54:40 GMT
    Content-Length: 18

Resubmitting again using the auth basic header succeeds.

    $ curl -H "Authorization:Basic dXNlcjpwYXNzd29yZA==" http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")/api/charts
    {
      "sample": [
        {
          "name": "sample",
          "home": "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes",
          "sources": [
            "https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-workshop-for-kubernetes"
          ],
          "version": "1.0.0",
          "description": "My first Helm chart",
          "keywords": [
            "java",
            "javaee",
            "mysql",
            "wildfly",
            "wildfly swarm"
          ],
          "maintainers": [
            {
              "name": "Arun Gupta",
              "email": "arun.gupta@gmail.com"
            }
          ],
          "urls": [
            "charts\/sample-1.0.0.tgz"
          ],
          "created": "2018-03-10T00:20:00Z",
          "digest": "9ee14a033addb5c9b54ae3714bd595fc652a4305535ab643406dfa83a016c9c5"
        }
      ]
    }

==== Accessing the Charts

To access the repo within the `helm` cli add it as a repository.

First lets try adding the repo without the user to verify authentication.

    $ helm repo add chartmuseum http://$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")
    Error: Looks like "http://xxx-xxx.us-east-2.elb.amazonaws.com" is not a
    valid chart repository or cannot be reached: Failed to fetch
    http://xxx-xxx.us-east-2.elb.amazonaws.com/index.yaml : 401 Unauthorized

Next we'll add the credentials to the url and try again.

    $ helm repo add chartmuseum http://user:password@$(kubectl get svc -l app=chartmuseum -o jsonpath="{.items..status.loadBalancer.ingress..hostname}")
    "chartmuseum" has been added to your repositories

Now if you use `helm install chartmuseum/sample` or `helm search
chartmuseum/sample` you will see the chart you just pushed.

== Cleanup

To cleanup `chartmuseum` and the local chart repos you can just use the cli.

    helm del chartmuseum --purge
    helm del monocular --purge
    helm repo rm chartmuseum

You are now ready to continue on with the workshop!

:frame: none
:grid: none
:valign: top

[align="center", cols="1", grid="none", frame="none"]
|=====
|image:button-continue-developer.png[link=../../03-path-application-development/311-chaos-engineering]
|link:../../developer-path.adoc[Go to Developer Index]
|=====
